you
this lecture is about the inverted index
construction in this lecture we will
continue the discussion of system
implementation in particular we're gonna
discuss how to construct it in word
learning that the construction of the
inverted index is actually very easy if
the data set is very small it's very
easy to construct a dictionary and then
store the postings in a fire the problem
is that when our data is not able to fit
to the memory then we have to use some
special method to deal with it and
unfortunately in most retrieval
applications that data set would be
large and they generally cannot be load
into the memory at once and there are
many approaches to solve another problem
and sorting based the method is quite
common it works in four steps as shown
here first you cracked the local comedy
document ID and frequency doubles
basically you will count the terms in a
small set of documents right and then
once you crank those counts you have
sought those counts based on terms so
that you build a local a partial
inverted index and these are called runs
and then you write them into a temporary
file on the disk and then you merge in
step 3 you would do paralyze merging of
these runs and here you eventually merge
all the runs we generate a single
inverted index so this is an
illustration of this method on the left
you see some documents and on the right
we have shown a complex code and a
document I need accident these lessons
are to map string based or plantations
of document IDs or terms into integer
plantations and not back from integers
to the stream with annotation
and the reason why we want are
interested in using integers we
represent these IDs is because integers
are often easier to handle for example
integers can be used as index for array
and they are also easy to compress and
so this is one reason why we tend to map
these strings into integers and so lot
well so that we don't have to carry
these strings around so how does this
approach work well it's very simple
we're going to scan these documents
signature and then pause the document
and account the frequencies of terms and
in this state we generally sort the
frequencies by document IDs because we
process each document sequentially so we
first encounter all the terms in the
first document
therefore the document IDs are all ones
in this case and this will be followed
by document IDs to tools and they are
natural results in this order just
because we process the data in the
second jorah at some point we will run
out of memory and then we would have to
to write them into the disk before we do
that we're going to salt them just to
use whatever memory we have we can sort
them and and then this time open the
salt based on term Islands note that
here we're using this term IDs as a key
to sort so all the entries that share
the same term would be grouped together
in this case we can see order all the
IDS of talking that match come one will
be grouped together and we're going to
write this into the disk as a temporary
file and that would allow you to use the
memory to process an extra batch of
documents and we're going to do that for
all the documents so we're going to
write a lot of temporary
fires into the disco and then the next
of stages would emerge assault basically
we're going to merge them and assault
them eventually we will get single
inverted index whether their injuries
are sorted based on term IDs and on the
top we can see these are all the entries
for the documents that match determine
ID 1 so this is basically how we can do
the construction of inverted index even
though the data cannot be loaded into
the memory now we mentioned earlier that
because the postings are very large it's
desirable to compress them so let's now
talk a little bit about how we compress
inverted index well the idea of
compression in general is the leverage
steward distributions of values and we
generally have to use variable length
encoding instead of the fixed event
encoding as we use in a by default in a
programming language like C++ and so how
can we leverage the skill the
distributions of values to compress
these values well in general we would
use fewer bits to encode those frequent
words at the cost of using longer bits
to encode those rare values so in our
case let's think about how we can
compress the TF from frequency now if
you can picture what the inverted index
would look like and you'll see things
there are a lot of come frequencies
those are the frequencies of terms in
all those documents now we you think
about what kind of values are most
frequently there you probably will be
able to guess that
small numbers tend to occur far more
frequently than large numbers why well
think about the distribution of words
and this is due to the Zipf's law and
many words occur just rare
so we see a lot of small animals
therefore we can use a fewer bits for
the small but highly frequent integers
and at the cost of using more bits for
large integers now this is a trade-off
of course if the values are distributed
in uniform and this one will save us any
space but because we tend to see many
small values they are very frequent we
can save on average even though
sometimes when we see a large number we
have to use a lot of bits what about the
document IDs that we also saw in
postings well they are not distributed
in the school weight right
so how can we do with that well it turns
out that you can use a trick called
a gap and that let us restore the
difference of these two - and we can
imagine if a term has matched the many
documents then there will be a long list
of document IDs so when we take the gap
I'm going to take the difference between
adjacent document IDs those gaps will be
small so we again see a lot of small
numbers whereas if a term occurring only
a few documents then the gap will be
large the large numbers will not be
frequent so this creates some security
situation that would allow us to to
compress these values and this is also
possible because in order to uncover or
uncompress these document IDs we have to
sequentially process the data because we
store the difference and in order to
recover the the exactly document ID we
have to first recover the previous
document ID and then we can add the
difference to the previous document ID
to restore the the currently documenting
now this was possible because we only
needed to have sequential access to
those of my IDs once we look up a term
we fetch all the document IDs that match
the term then we sequentially process
them so it's very natural that's why
this trick after the world
and there are many different methods for
encoding so binary code is a common user
code in just any program memories where
we use basically fixed length encoding
generally called and chemical and
Aragorn are all possibilities and there
are many other possibilities so let's
look at some of them in more detail
binary encoding is really equal ends
encoding and that's appropriate for
randomly distributed values the unit
recording is is a variable ends in
common method in this case integer
that's at least one would be encoded as
X minus 1 1 bits followed by 0
so for example 3 with being coded as 2
ones followed by 0 whereas five would be
encoded as 4 ones for by 0 etc so now
you can imagine how many bits do we have
to use for a large number like 100 so
how many bits do have to use exactly for
a number like a 100 well exactly we have
to use 100 bits right so it's the same
number of bits as the value of this
number so this is a very inefficient if
you will likely see some large numbers
imagine if you occasionally see a number
like 1000 you have to use 1000 bits so
this only works well if you are
absolutely sure that there will be no
large numbers mostly very free there
often you see very small numbers now how
do you decode this code since these are
variable length encoding methods and you
can't just count how many bits and then
they just stop right you can say 8 bits
or 32 bits then you will start another
code they are variable and so you have
to rely on some mechanism in this case
for urinary you can see it's very easy
to see the boundary now you can easily
see 0 would signal the end of encoding
so you just count how many ones you have
seen and
zero you know you have finished one
number you will start another number now
we just saw that the you neural coding
is too aggressive in rewarding small
numbers and if you occasionally can see
a very big number you will be a disaster
so what about some other less aggressive
method well gamma coding is one of them
and in this method we're going to use
unary coding for a transform the form of
the value so it's 1 plus the flow of log
of X so the magnitude of this value is
much lower than the original X so that's
why we can afford using unary code for
that so and so we'll firstly have the
unary code for calling this log of X and
this will be followed by a uniform code
or binary code and it's basically the
same uniform code and bonny binary code
are the same and we're gonna use this
code to code the remaining part of the
value of x and this is basically precise
X minus 1/2 to the floor of log of X so
the unary code basically coded the flow
of log of X well add one there and here
but the remaining part will be using
uniform color to have to recode the
difference between the acts and and this
2 to the log of X and it's easy to to
ensure that for this this value this
difference we only need to use up to
this many bits and the floor of log of X
bits and this is easy to understand if
the difference is too large then would
have a higher flow of log of X so here
are some examples
for example three is encoded as 101 the
first two digits are the unary code
right so this is for the value two one
zero encodes two in unary coding and so
that means log of X the flow of log of X
is one because we want actually use
unary code to encode one plus the flow
of log of X since this is two then we
know that the flow of log of X is
actually 1 so but 3 is still larger than
to do the 1 so the difference is 1 and
that 1 is encoded here at the end so
that's why we have 101 4 3 similarly a 5
is encoded as 1 1 0 followed by 0 1 and
in this case the unary code encodes 3
and so this is a unary code 1 1 0 and so
the flow of log of X is 2 and that means
we're going to compute the difference
between 5 & 2 to the 2 and that's 1 and
so we now have again 1 at the end but
this time we're going to use 2 bits
because with this level flow of log of X
we could have more numbers and 5 6 7
they would all share the same prefix
here one more 0 so in order to
differentiate them we have to use two
bits in the end to differentiate them so
you can imagine 6 would be 1 0 here in
the end instead of 0 1 after 1 & 0
it's also true that the form of a
chemical is always the first odd number
of bits and in the center there is a 0
that's the end of the unary code before
that old on the left side of this 0 they
will be all ones and on the right side
of this 0 it's binary coding
you know uniform code so how can you
decode such a code well you again first
to do union coding right
once you hit zero you know you have got
a unary code and this also tell you how
many bits you have to read the further
to decode the uniform code so this is
how you can decode a chemical there is
also teller code that's basically the
same as a gamma code except that you
replace the unit prefix with the
chemical so that's even less
conservative tank armor code in terms of
rewarding the small integers so that
means it's okay if you occasionally see
a large number it's it's you know it's
ok with Darren code it's also fine with
the camera code it's it's really a big
loss for unary code and they are all
operating of course at different degrees
of favoring shot very small integers and
that also means you they would be
appropriate for a certain distribution
but none of them is perfect for all
distributions and which method works the
best would have to depend on the actual
distribution in your dataset for
inverting that's compression people have
found that gamma coding seems to work
well so how do we uncompress invert
index and we just talked about this
first rate decode those encode integers
and we just I think discussed how we
take all the Union recording and gamma
calling so I won't repeat what about the
document IDs that might be compressed
using the gap well we're going to do
sequential decoding so suppose they
included ID list is X 1 X 2 X 3 et
cetera we first to decode X 1 or obtain
the first two document ID ID 1 then
we'll the decode X 2 which is actually
the difference between the second ID and
the first one so we have to add the
decoder value of x - 2 ID 1 to recover
the
value of the the ID at this second
deposition right so this is all where
you can see the advantage of converting
document IDs into integers and that
allows us to do this kind of compression
and we just repeat until we decode all
the documents every time we use the
document ID in the previous position to
help you recover the document ID in the
next position